---
title: "AGILE Principles"
last_modified_at: 2021-03-09T16:20:02-05:00
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Agile
  - Project Management
  - DevOps
---

1. Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software. 
2. Welcome changing requirements, even late in development. Agile processes harness change for the customer's competitive advantage. Like it or not, requirements will change throughout a software development project. T
3. Deliver working software frequently, from a couple of weeks to a couple of months, with a preference to the shorter time scale. Frequent delivery of working software provides stakeholders with concrete feedback, making the current status of your project transparent
4. Business people and developers must work together daily throughout the project. Your project is in serious trouble if you don't have regular access to your project stakeholders. 
5. Build projects around motivated individuals. Give them the environment and support they need, and trust them to get the job done. Agile teams, on the other hand, realize that you need to build teams from people who are willing to work together collaboratively and learn from each other
6. The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development team is face-to-face conversation. For a software development team to succeed its members must communicate and collaborate effectively. 
7. Working software is the primary measure of progress. The primary measure of software development should be the delivery of working software which meets the changing needs of its stakeholders.
8. Agile processes promote sustainable development. The sponsors, developers, and users should be able to maintain a constant pace indefinitely. Just like you can't sprint for an entire marathon, you can't successfully develop software by forcing people to work overtime for months at a time. 
9. Continuous attention to technical excellence and good design enhances agility. It's much easier to understand, maintain, and evolve high-quality source code than it is to work with low-quality code.
10. Simplicity – the art of maximizing the amount of work not done – is essential. Agile developers focus on high value activities.
11. The best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self-organizing teams. This is one of the most radical principles of the agile movement, one which I would love to see researched thoroughly by the academic community.
12. At regular intervals, the team reflects on how to become more effective, then tunes and adjusts its behavior accordingly. Software process improvement (SPI) is a continual effort, and techniques such as retrospectives should be adopted to enable you to improve your approach to software development. 